Mint 12
#######
:date: 2012-03-30 18:26:00
:author: monknomo
:category: text
:tags: linux, systemadministration, mint
:slug: 2012-03-30-mint-12

|Mint + a ladybug by zenera|



.. raw:: html

   </p>

I finally bothered to get some ram that is on my motherboard's approved
list.  The old stuff kept popping out of the sockets whenever the
temperature changed, which was making our erratic spring too exciting
for my tastes.  Since I had to order more ram anyhow, I also decided to
throw on an SSD.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

Finally, I figured with a new hard drive, designed for rapid booting I'd
have to re-install Linux anyhow, so I might as well give Mint a shot.  I
thought about upgrading from Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, but I'm not totally sold
on Unity as a desktop theme, and the internet consensus seems to be that
Mint is a pretty good equivalent to 10.04.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

Install was a breeze, although I couldn't figure out how to get a a usb
stick image to boot, so I had to juggle cds and hard drives.  The AT5ION
only has two sata slots so I could only run one disk and the cd at a
time.  I installed to the SSD, then hooked up the regular old spinning
platter and formatted it.  The only vaguely tricky thing I did was
follow the SSD optimization `here`_.  I used sudo
``tune2fs -t ext4 -O ^has_journal /dev/sdb1``  instead of mke2fs,
because my disk was already partitioned.  I had to run that command from
the live cd, because the disk can't be mounted.\ |Mint Juelp, by Rob
Ireton|



.. raw:: html

   </p>

Another thing that might qualify as tricky was that I was to move my
home directory to the regular hd, and then made a symbolic link back in
/home on the SSD.  As I mentioned above, I had a choice between running
both hard drives or a hard drive and a cd, so I had to configure this
after Mint was installed to the SSD.  I created a spare admin user, then
logged out of my account and into the admin.  I moved my users
/home/username directory to the other hard drive, then created a
/home/username symbolic link back to the other disk.  Then, and this is
important, (I got bit, can you tell?) you have to add the second hard
drive to /etc/fstab or you won't be able to get back into your user
account because it will be looking for a link that points to an
unmounted drive.



.. raw:: html

   </p>

In retrospect, I probably should do something like make a copy of /home,
configure fstab to mount the second drive at /home, and then put
everything in /home on the second drive.  That would have a somewhat
less convoluted path than I've got right now, but babysteps, you know.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. _here: http://community.linuxmint.com/tutorial/view/293

.. |Mint + a ladybug by zenera| image:: http://farm1.staticflickr.com/39/82943884_4d7d3be1a0_n.jpg
.. |Mint Juelp, by Rob Ireton| image:: http://farm1.staticflickr.com/45/173459581_ec4eaa9622_n.jpg
