Google Forms are Pretty Useful
##############################
:date: 2013-11-04 18:37:44
:author: monknomo
:category: text
:tags: measuredlife, lifehacks, lifehack, plants, poetry, quantifiedself
:slug: 2013-11-04-google-forms-are-pretty-useful

This is old news. Google has forms that can funnel whatever is entered
into a spreadsheet. People use them for signup sheets or phone number
collectors, or all sorts of things. I don’t run any mailing lists or
things that typically require forms, so I have pretty much gone along
ignoring forms, feeling pretty good and not knowing what I’m missing out
on. Two things have persistently been bothering me, all the time I was
blissfully unaware of the benefit of forms. I grow plants and want to
keep track of the progress of certain aspects, like how long cuttings
take to root, or how fast something grows or how often I actually water
them. I also like to write haiku, and feel like writing them daily is
helpful for improving.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I have a hard time actually following through with either task. Number
one, I tend to not record the information in the same place or same
format, and even if I do, I never get it on a computer, so I can’t
analyze or share it easily. Number two, I forget.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

I’ll give you the tldr; solution to save you from reading further:

.. raw:: html

   </p>

| - Characterize a problem that requires regular data input

| - Distill the data input down to something you can put in a form

- Hassle someone to do the input with calendar notifications

.. raw:: html

   </p>

| If you’re still with me, this all started when I was wondering how
long pothos cuttings take to root in water, so naturally I turned to
Google, where people disagreed with each other and weren’t terrifically
helpful. Naturally I thought since I have a bunch of vines sitting in a
glass of water, I could resolve the

question once and for all by measuring how long it took. I started to
write down observations in my notebook, when I was struck that I could
just as easily put them in a spreadsheet. I was further struck that a
spreadsheet is unwieldy, but a form is pretty easy to use and puts stuff
in a spreadsheet for me. So I made a form that asked what day it was and
whether I could see any roots.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

This ran straight into my second problem, but since I was already in the
headspace of doing the quick and dirty computerized assist, I just made
a recurring calendar event with the address of my form and have been
happily collecting data ever since.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

Immediately after populating my calendar, I started to think of other
things I mean to do on a regular basis, but never quite manage, which
lead me back to my daily haiku project. I followed the same pattern for
haiku and have been churning out mini poems on a schedule ever since. I
think both of these approaches have the added bonus that it should prove
fairly easy to siphon data out of a google spreadsheet into a more
useful form

.. raw:: html

   </p>

/Edits to clean up email formatting oddities

.. raw:: html

   </p>

